# Introduction

## The State of Learning How to Start Note-Taking
I was blessed for much of my education to not need to study. I was able to perform well by just listening during class. The only form of studying I did involved me talking to my peers about the subject material and thinking about it. This was excellent for classes that I cared about, but I underperformed in those subject that were disinteresting or when the teacher was boring. I could expect a B so long as a class wasn't homework heavy. I received a head injury in January of 2020 which hindered my ability recall significant portions of new information. I noticed this decline around September of that year and realized that my note-taking system was no-longer sufficient. I contacted a few resources but realized that my University offered very little that would actually help. I decided to learn how to take notes as a 21-year-old.

I watched hundreds of hours of content related to note-taking and tried more methods than I can remember. Each of these attempts began with a rush of energy and an idea of what direction to go, and ended with me forgetting about it or being burnt out. I realized that what burned me out of most systems was a need to spend a large potion of time preparing notes before writing them. I attempted to create my own system many times and I continued to fail to make something that felt right and was useful. I had hundreds of pages of various notes from my past and I realized that what I had been doing up to then was trying to categorize my previous notes. I was spending more time thinking of how to format my notes than thinking about my notes. I recalled that thinking about a subject is what helped me perform well in said subject and I realized that nearly all of the information I found online was putting my mind in a position where I was thinking more about note-taking-theory than taking notes.

So I did something unreasonable. I just started taking notes in the way that felt right. I started by writing what I will now call 'Journals' but at the time, it was just writing in the way that felt most comfortable. I had no goal in my notes other than to create them and later analyze them. I chose to study by breaking down my notes in ways that my gut told me to try. I did not create any rules, I simply looked at my notes and played around with them. This is the moment I realized the error, or oversight, that plagues content related to learning how to take notes; they do not teach it from scratch. Videos on note-taking tend to be from experts in memory, or people who are successful. Most of these people learned how to take note when they were young enough that they simply cannot remember starting from scratch. They all use conglomerate words which, if you do not define in the exact same way, would lead you to never actually understand them. Rather than trying to correct all of the ills of this field, I hope to create a handbook which actually helps.

## How to Start Note-Taking
To begin note-taking for the first time you must do two things. You must take notes and you must refine your notes. How you take your notes matters VERY little, so long as there are enough words to work with. Refining your notes can take any form, even increasing their length or splitting a note into multiple notes. The way this is done also matters little. It is through refining your notes that you get better at taking your notes. You cannot become a better note-taker by taking notes, you get better by refining your mind. When you keep your mind in the state of refinement, you start refining your notes as you write them, because your mind is thinking in a refined version of your language. But, notes are never fully refined. Reviewing notes often keeps notes updated. 

## What Comes Next?
I am aware that I am imperfect. Although the directions for how to begin taking notes seems clear to me, I am confident that it will not make sense to everyone. The remainder of this handbook is meant to provide real-world examples of what the refinement process looks like. Refinement is the key to note-taking, but it is useless unless the key is in your hand. This handbook should plant the seeds of note-taking that you may reap them.

Nearly 80 years ago (1946) George Orwell wrote, "Vagueness and sheer incompetence is the most marked characteristic of modern English prose... As soon as certain topics are raised, the concrete melts into the abstract... prose consists less and less of _words_ chosen for the sake of their meaning, and more and more of _phrases_..." Given all the useless pages of information I was forced to read in school, I am still shocked that I never read *Politics and the English Language* by George Orwell. Within his essay, Orwell writes about the impurity, ugliness, and inaccuracy of the use of the English language in the Post-War Era. The essay focuses on the language of politics, but the politics of previous centuries becomes the life of the present.

